[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard,
host of "Mystery Teachings."
And today I'm going to
lead you in a meditation
with the archetypes of the
Empress and the Emperor.
Now, together, they
help us to balance
our creative imagination
with our reasoning abilities.
And the Empress awakens the
powers of reproduction, growth,
and regeneration,
while the Emperor helps
us to gain a renewed
sense of life, adventure,
and initiative.
Let's explore some of
the practical things
that we can do to work with both
these archetypes, the Empress
and the Emperor.
So here's a formula that you can
follow for invoking these two
archetypes into your life.
First, we'll work with
one card at a time,
beginning with the Empress.
Once you're ready, find the
Empress card in your deck
and take it out.
Place this card in front
of you at eye level.
And if you have a meditation
stool or a cushion,
you can sit on that
in front of a table
and place the card
upright on the table.
Get yourself into a relaxed
position and a light meditative
state.
Empty your mind, and
make sure that you're
in a positive or at least
a neutral state of being
with nothing disturbing you
either mentally or emotionally.
Once you're in this
relaxed and peaceful state,
look at the image of the
Empress card for a while.
With your eyes open, study the
card for about 5 to 10 minutes.
Really take in all the details.
Study its imagery
and its symbolism.
Notice all the
little intricacies
and really ingrain
it within your mind.
I'll remain silent now
for the next five minutes
as we now meditate on the
symbolism of the card.
After those 5 to 10 minutes
of looking at the card
with your eyes open,
next we're going
to take it inside
and work with it
inside our mind for another 10
minutes with our eyes closed.
Really build up that
image inside your mind
and reproduce the entire
image with all its details
firmly within your mind.
Once the image is firmly
established in your mind,
then use your active
imagination and your five senses
and let it come to life.
Bring the Empress to
life and let her move.
Let her engage.
Perhaps she has a message or
perhaps just in her behavior
she shows you what
her message is.
Just observe it for a while.
Feel the energy that
the Empress emanates.
Once you feel this connection
and it's become strong,
the next step is to
merge with the Empress.
Become the Empress.
See yourself as the Empress.
Feel her come alive within you.
When you feel integrated
with this energy
and the Empress is alive within
you, now sit up in the chair
and actually take on the
posture of the Empress.
Assume her archetypal
form and body position,
sitting in that chair,
holding the scepter,
feeling that crown
upon your head,
feeling the sensory-rich
environment of nature
around you.
And then you're going to
say this affirmation--
I am the daughter
of the mighty ones.
I bring beauty, love, and
care to all my relations.
Feel that energy
resonates within you
and awaken within yourselves.
When you feel complete
with the Empress,
you're going to put
her aside for a moment.
And now we're going to do the
same process with the Emperor
card.
So bring out the Emperor card.
Put it on the table
in front of you.
Meditate upon it with your
eyes open for 5 to 10 minutes,
taking in all the
details, studying
the card, all of its
aspects, really feeling it.
You're now going to
take that image inside.
Close your eyes and work
with it in your inner mind
for another 10 minutes.
Reproduce and build up
the image of the Emperor
within your mind.
Bring in all the details,
the colors, the energy,
the symbols.
Firmly establish the
Emperor within your mind.
And then imagine that this
image is like a doorway
into a scenery.
And you're going to
walk through that.
And as you do, allow the
Emperor and the scenery
to come to life.
Observe everything
around in more
of a three-dimensional
landscape.
Observe the Emperor.
What does he do?
How does he express?
What does he say?
What is his teaching
or his message?
Use your active imagination and
engage all five senses to allow
this imagery to awaken.
And feel the Emperor.
Feel the energy and the ways
of being of the Emperor.
Once you feel this
connection strongly,
then merge with the
Emperor and become him.
Allow the Emperor to
awaken within you.
You are the Emperor.
See yourself as the Emperor.
Feel his energy
alive within you.
When you feel this energy
integrated and settled
within you, next you're
going to sit up in a chair
and actually take on the
posture of the Emperor.
Assume his archetypal form.
Imagine that you're
sitting in your throne
with the scepter
in your right hand
and the orb in your left,
crown upon your head.
You're fully suited
in the armor.
And from this position of your
throne, say this affirmation--
I am the son of the morning
and chief among the mighty.
I define my world.
And I am the captain of my ship.
Allow those words
and that energy
to reverberate and to
resonate within you
and to awaken it
within yourselves.
When you feel this
awakening within you,
you're now going to place both
the Empress and the Emperor
cards next to each other and
meditate on them together,
placing the Empress on left
and the Emperor on the right.
Notice and see how these cards
contrast with each other.
Notice the differences.
And also notice how they
complement each other.
Notice the similarities.
The Empress stimulates
your creative imagination,
while the Emperor stimulates
your sovereign reason.
Finally, we want to
take these energies
and express them
into our outer life.
So examples of
how to do that are
to bring the primary colors into
our life, into our environment,
into our clothing.
That would be green
for the Empress
and red for the Emperor.
We can also continue
this daily practice
of meditating upon the symbols
and the two cards in the way
that we just did as well as
working with the affirmations
we just used.
Contemplate the
meaning of each card
and how it applies to your life.
Watch for the archetypes
to appear in your dreams
as they awaken within
your consciousness,
and then analyze their messages.
And especially pay
attention to how
you embody the strengths and
the weaknesses of each one.
And then consciously
work to make improvements
in these areas.
Do all of this daily
for the next week.
And again, realize
that when we're
working with the archetypes
in this way, they will awaken
and they will set forces
in motion in our life.
They will become an
active part of our life.
So if we're going to engage with
them in this experiential way,
then we really want to commit to
seeing this journey all the way
through to the end,
working with each card,
each of the 22 archetypes
in the order given
as we go through this journey
and this season of "Mystery
Teachings."
Don't skip steps.
Really go through
it step by step
and give it your attention.
Join me again as
we explore further
into the 22 archetypes
of Tarot and how
they can help us to make our
big shift in consciousness.